# Encourage to read (everything_this_repo):

This repository serves as a small record of exploration into DFT, FFT, STFT, and MFCCs, while also providing a valuable overview of current research advancements in the field of sound source separation. The portable file in Fourier/Mfccs tries to cover the basic things for working with DFT, FFT, STFT and MFCCs as well. The file spent time over the thing, where it had struggled in its learning process. The small, very common and basic things have been attempted to make the reader understand. It has tried to get the mathematics in very little aspects of the Fourier transform and Mfccs. The DFT matrix, unit circle and basic trigonometry for DFT and FFT especially the unit circle in very energetic propeller in FFT and learner will reach to a special edge if he/she can rotate the unit circle smoothly with and play around it, the sine and cosine function. The unit circle holds the power of modulating the movement of air or sound, regulate its pressure, and break the control and oscillation of air, its contained energy, thus works as a powerful tool for making sound waves as its weapon, the sound waves walk or very strictly controlled by the unit circle, which holds the power of making sound revolve around the environment and cleave through different matters and obstacles it faces. The breaking of obstacles or where will, by what measure the sound can travel, the distance, way, deviation, in the air as well as it holds the power of destroying the things or barriers standing in its way of travel. However, the unit circle controls or manipulates the inherent discovered and non-discovered power of sound. The basic understanding of filter banks in MFCCs, composition and decomposition of numbers, concentration of peaks, understanding the spectrogram, the biological processes, how the human auditory system works, and function of individual steps in stages covering the whole process is crucial for understanding the MFCCs well. In order to understand, seeing mathematics is quite important. The processes or steps in all of these work are nothing but little playing of mathematics whatever is the function or process, we should see, inside of it, that what is happening to numbers and which parts of number are being more controlled, modified, or regulated by the working, what changes is being to the numbers, how the change may or may not relate to other numbers etc. In STFT, understanding the window function is very necessary and the big part for STFT, rests overlap with DFT or FFT. Different kinds of window functions, difference in their activity have to be very much studied. The choosing of window function is a trade-off between the leakage and its portion of coverage in the whole signal or frame. How the numbers calculated are placed on the spectrogram, how the window function shapes the number it is. The literature review tried to walk along seven different articles, which tried to cover the summary of model architecture and its components, differences in its study from other papers, and what impact it can have on development of the field. For example, in today's world, the transformer architecture has contributed to profound advancement in sequential data processing. However, computational efficiency and resource requirement is a huge burden for democratic smooth research and model development with it. The basic models covered for speech separation are the RNN and CNN, each paper worked for they have used these networks. RNN handles the sequential data and CNN makes the work more energy efficient and affordable, the image processing part, striding, pooling, activation maps and for network forward. However, the core purpose of the literature review was to understand the basics of separation models, what, how, and why it works, with what things it interacts with. The speech separation process is to understand and make the model understand the prosodic features of sound which might include pitch, intonation, stress, rhythm, tempo, pauses and loudness. However, our small review paper tried to identify recent research in speech separation, achievements, limitations of works, and the gaps paper might lead to future works, and the architecture or flows of models. This readme file has not attached any images, procedures, or other guidelines as it is not necessary or a very small repository, would be easy and clear in documents and small codes. The literature review has a table in the end part and the sequence of the papers in that table matches the sequence of papers for discussion there, the required libraries and versions have been given in the requirement.txt file, for what will be found in the Fourier/Mfccs. However, in this learning process, the random open available content, papers, code, articles, blogs, and books especially helped and contributed much. Thank you!
